Remember The Milk: migrate actions to dedicated pages (#46590)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_actions/remember_the_milk.create_task.markdown

---
title: "Create task"
action: remember_the_milk.my_rtm_username_create_task
domain: remember_the_milk
description: "Creates or updates a task in Remember The Milk."
---

Use this action to create a task in Remember The Milk. If you provide an ID and a task with that ID already exists, the existing task is updated instead.

{% include actions/ui_header.md %}

To create a Remember The Milk task from an automation or a script:

1. Go to {% my automations title="**Settings** > **Automations & scenes**" %}.
2. Open an existing automation or script, or select **Create automation** > **Create new automation**.
3. If you're setting up a new automation, add a trigger in the **When** section. Scripts don't need a trigger. They run when something else calls them.
4. In the **Then do** section, select **Add action**.
5. Search for and select **Remember The Milk: `<your_rtm_username>_create_task`**.
6. In the top right, select **Menu** ({% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %}) > **Edit in YAML**.

> 7. Enter this action's YAML, following [Using this action in YAML](/integrations/remember_the_milk/#using-this-action-in-yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Enter this action's YAML, following [Using this action in YAML](/actions/remember_the_milk.create_task/#using-this-action-in-yaml).
```

---
title: "Create task"
action: remember_the_milk.myaccount_create_task
domain: remember_the_milk
description: "Creates or updates a task in Remember The Milk."
---

Use this action to create a task in Remember The Milk. If you provide an ID and a task with that ID already exists, the existing task is updated instead.

{% include actions/ui_header.md %}

To create a Remember The Milk task from an automation or a script:

1. Go to {% my automations title="**Settings** > **Automations & scenes**" %}.
2. Open an existing automation or script, or select **Create automation** > **Create new automation**.
3. If you're setting up a new automation, add a trigger in the **When** section. Scripts don't need a trigger. They run when something else calls them.
4. In the **Then do** section, select **Add action**.

> 5. Select **Remember The Milk: Create task**.

Reviewer: I see it as **Remember The Milk: myaccount_create_task**.

> 5. Select **Remember The Milk: Create task**.

Author: @Laufmaschine Thanks, I see the same thing! I want to keep the domain prefix here because it's

```suggestion
5. Search for and select **Remember The Milk: `<your_rtm_username>_create_task`**.
```

> 5. Select **Remember The Milk: Create task**.

Author: This shows an empty panel in the automation editor:

<img width="1190" height="611" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/379be4c3-2e5c-49a4-bdea-088fecabd047" />

When I switch to YAML, it has:

```yml
action: remember_the_milk.mbr42_create_task
metadata: {}
data: {}
```

After editing it to:

```yml
action: remember_the_milk.create_task
metadata: {}
data: {}
```

Some empty state text appears, and the action in the main view changes to **Remember the Milk: Create task**:

<img width="1190" height="611" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1692de4a-7632-41df-96d7-7237711afe09" />

I think we can say it's currently broken in the UI.

> 5. Select **Remember The Milk: Create task**.

Author: Created https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues/176564

6. Enter the task name.
7. Set an ID if you want to update or complete the same task later.
8. Select **Save**.

### Options in the UI

{% options_ui %}
Name:
  description: The name of the task to create. You can use Remember The Milk smart syntax when creating a new task.
ID:
  description: An identifier for the task. If a task with this ID already exists, the action updates the task instead of creating a new one.
  required: false
{% endoptions_ui %}

> 

Reviewer: I don´t see these options in the UI.

Author: I'll remove the UI options and refer to YAML options.
